Here are the different types of the JOINs in SQL:
(INNER) JOIN: Returns records that have matching values in both tables
LEFT (OUTER) JOIN: Returns all records from the left table, and the matched records from the right table , If there is no match, NULL values are returned for columns from the right table
RIGHT (OUTER) JOIN: Returns all records from the right table, and the matched records from the left table , for the rows for which there is no matching row on the left side, the result-set will contain null
FULL (OUTER) JOIN: creates the result-set by combining results of both LEFT JOIN and RIGHT JOIN.The result-set will contain all the rows from both tables. For the rows for which there is no matching, the result-set will contain NULL values.
Returns all records when there is a match in either left or right table. 
CROSS JOIN : it returns noof rows=carteesian product of table a * and table b
NATURAL JOIN : It checks the common column present in both tables and matches them based on inner join and returns result.
if table A has country column and table B has country column, it matches those columns on inner join and returns, no need to specify the column name it identifies common column and returns result based on column name
if common column exists , if common column does not exits it returns the cartesian results A*B.

ex: of inner join,if exampl both table A and B have country column , it matches based on that column and returns.
select *
from Table A
natural join table B

CROSS JOIN
CROSS JOIN creates all possible combinations of two tables. CROSS JOIN does not require a field to join ON.
SELECT NAME, TITLE
FROM ARTIST
CROSS JOIN ALBUM;

Full Join with Filter Clause: to exclude those matching , and get only non matching
SELECT table1.column1, table1.column2
FROM table1
FULL JOIN table2 ON table1.key = table2.key
WHERE table1.key IS NULL OR
table2.key IS NULL;

SELECT table1.column1,table1.column2,table2.column1,.... FROM table1  INNER JOIN
 table2 ON  table1.matching_column = table2.matching_column;

->If both tables have null value on any row on which join is performed , null value match is performed in any kinda join its ignored.

Self Join
A self join is a regular join but is used when a table has a foreign key relationship with itself so that the table is joined with itself instead of another table.
It is typically useful when you need to compare rows within the same table. Below is the syntax for a self join:
SELECT column_name(s)
FROM table1 T1, table1 T2
WHERE condition;

Can I join more than two tables in SQL?
Yes, you can join more than two tables in SQL. To join multiple tables, you can simply include additional JOIN clauses in your SQL statement, 
with each JOIN clause joining one table to the result of the previous join. For instance:
SELECT * FROM orders
JOIN customers
ON orders.customer_id = customers.customer_id
JOIN products
ON orders.product_id = products.product_id;



