Acid Properties
1. Atomicity : A transaction is either completed in its entirety or not at all. 
If a transaction encounters an error midway, all changes made within that transaction are rolled back, ensuring that the database remains in a consistent state.
2. Consistency : This property ensures that a transaction brings the database from one consistent state to another. In other words, the database follows a set of predefined rules and constraints, 
ensuring that data integrity is maintained even during the execution of complex operations.
Consistency ensures that the database remains in a valid state before and after the transaction.
In other words, the database schema must satisfy all constraints and rules, and any transaction that violates these constraints must be rolled back to maintain the consistency of the database.
ex: constraint balance should not be -ve
3. Isolation : Transactions are isolated from each other, preventing interference and conflicts between concurrent transactions. 
This property ensures that the actions of one transaction are invisible to other transactions until they are successfully committed.
Complete isolation of concurrently running transactions could mean that one transaction cannot perform an insert into a table being queried by another transaction.
Therefore, real-world considerations usually require a compromise between perfect transaction isolation and performance.
Dirty reads: reading uncommitted data
Non-repeatable reads: data changes between two reads
Phantom reads: new rows appear during a transaction
Each transaction should run as if it’s the only one running, even when many run simultaneously.
👉 Example: If two users book the same seat at once, isolation ensures only one succeeds.
4. Durability : Once a transaction is successfully committed, its effects are permanent. 
Even in the face of system crashes or power failures, the changes made by committed transactions are retained, and the database is able to recover to a consistent state upon restarting.

Atomicity is managed using ROLLBACK in case of errors, preventing partial updates.
Consistency is enforced via constraints (e.g., foreign keys, unique keys) to maintain data integrity.
Isolation is implemented through locks to avoid conflicts between concurrent transactions.
Durability is achieved by persisting transactions, ensuring that they are not lost once committed, even in the event of a failure.

Explain the different normal forms (1NF, 2NF, 3NF).
1NF (First Normal Form): Each column must contain atomic (single) values, and there should be no repeating groups of data.
2NF (Second Normal Form): Must be in 1NF and all non-key attributes must be fully dependent on the primary key.
3NF (Third Normal Form): Must be in 2NF and have no transitive dependencies (non-key attributes should not depend on other non-key attributes).
What is denormalization and when would you use it? 
Denormalization is intentionally introducing redundancy to a database to improve the performance of complex queries, typically in data warehousing or analytical processing (OLAP) systems. 

How does RDBMS handle deadlocks and how can they be avoided?
Deadlocks happen when two transactions wait for each other’s locks. RDBMS systems detect them and kill one to let the other finish.
You can avoid them by accessing tables in a fixed order, keeping transactions short, and using proper indexing.

What’s the difference between horizontal and vertical partitioning in databases?
Horizontal partitioning splits a table into rows—like separating data by region. It’s good for large datasets. 
Vertical partitioning splits it into columns—useful for reducing data loaded at once. Both help with performance and maintenance.


What is the difference between CHAR and VARCHAR2 datatype in SQL?
Both Char and Varchar2 are used for characters datatype but varchar2 is used for character strings of variable length whereas Char is used for strings of fixed length.
For example, char(10) can only store 10 characters and will not be able to store a string of any other length whereas varchar2(10) can store any length i.e 6,8,2 in this variable.
char -Always uses exactly n bytes (padded with spaces if shorter), e: used for pincodes
ex:-
CREATE TABLE Test (
  c CHAR(5),
  v VARCHAR(5)
);
INSERT INTO Test VALUES ('SQL', 'SQL');
SELECT LENGTH(c), LENGTH(v) FROM Test;
Output:
LENGTH(c) = 5
LENGTH(v) = 3

 What do you mean by Denormalization?
Denormalization refers to a technique that is used to access data from higher to lower forms of a database. It helps the database managers to increase the performance of the entire infrastructure as it introduces redundancy into a table.
It adds the redundant data into a table by incorporating database queries that combine data from various tables into a single table.

Clustered Index: This index reorders the physical order of the table and searches based on the basis of key values. Each table can only have one clustered index.
Non-Clustered Index: Non-Clustered Index does not alter the physical order of the table and maintains a logical order of the data. Each table can have many nonclustered indexes.

