Views : A view is a virtual table based on the result-set of an SQL statement.
It contains rows and columns, just like a real table, but unlike a table, a view does not store data itself. Instead, it dynamically retrieves data from one or more tables as and when queried.

1. Simplified Querying : Views can encapsulate complex joins, filters, and calculations, providing a simplified interface for users. Instead of writing intricate SQL queries,users can interact with a view that presents the data in a straightforward manner.

2. Data Security: Views can restrict access to specific rows and columns of a table. By granting users access to a view instead of the underlying tables, you can control which data they can see and modify.

3. Data Abstraction : Views provide a level of abstraction over the physical data storage. This abstraction allows changes in the underlying table structure without affecting the users’ interactions with the data through views.

Three Types of views:
1.Simple views:Simple views are formed from a single table and do not contain any group functions or complex calculations.
CREATE VIEW simple_view AS
SELECT column1, column2
FROM table_name
WHERE condition;
2.Complex views: Complex views involve multiple tables, joins, and aggregation functions. They handle more sophisticated SQL logic.
CREATE VIEW complex_view AS
SELECT a.column1, b.column2, SUM(a.column3)
FROM table1 a
JOIN table2 b ON a.id = b.id
GROUP BY a.column1, b.column2;
3. Materialized views: Materialized views store the result set of a query physically, unlike standard views. They are useful for improving query performance on complex and resource-intensive operations.
However, materialized views require maintenance to keep them updated with changes in the underlying data.
querying a materialized view is generally faster than recomputing the same result every time a query is executed.
CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW materialized_view_name AS
SELECT column1, column2, ...
FROM table_name
WHERE condition;

Updating a View : You can use the CREATE OR REPLACE VIEW statement to update or modify an existing view. This statement allows you to redefine the view without dropping it first.
CREATE OR REPLACE VIEW view_name AS
SELECT column1, column2, column3
FROM table_name
WHERE condition;

Dropping a View : You can remove a view from the database using the DROP VIEW statement.
DROP VIEW view_name;

Refreshing a Materialized View : Materialized views need to be refreshed periodically to update their content with the latest data from the underlying tables. You can do this by using the REFRESH MATERIALIZED VIEW statement.
REFRESH MATERIALIZED VIEW materialized_view_name;

Indexing Underlying Tables: Ensure that the underlying tables of a view are properly indexed. This can significantly enhance the performance of queries executed on the view.
Views can be used as security mechanisms by letting users access data through the view, without granting users permissions to directly access the underlying tables of the query
Views can be used to provide a backward compatible interface to emulate a table that used to exist but whose schema has changed.

Views with conditions
SELECT * FROM Vemployee_data WHERE gender = 'female'

views can be used to update/delete/insert data in table under below conditions
1. views dont have distince keyword
2. views done have having , group by clause
3. views dont have aggregate functions like max() , sum()
3. views dont contain order , sortby
it first updateds or deletes data in actual table and reflects in view
update empview
set name="vish"
where id=2
updates employee table first and then view empview

With Check option:
If we have used the WITH CHECK OPTION clause in the CREATE VIEW statement, and if the UPDATE or INSERT clause does not satisfy the conditions then they will return an error. 
In the below example, we are creating a View SampleView from the StudentDetails Table with a WITH CHECK OPTION clause.
Example:
CREATE VIEW SampleView AS
SELECT S_ID, NAME
FROM  StudentDetails
WHERE NAME IS NOT NULL
WITH CHECK OPTION;
In this view, if we now try to insert a new row with a null value in the NAME column then it will give an error because the view is created with the condition for the NAME column as NOT NULL. 
For example, though the View is updatable then also the below query for this View is not valid:
INSERT INTO SampleView(S_ID) VALUES(6);


Creating views in stored procedure
CREATE PROCEDURE CreateMarketersView
AS
BEGIN
    EXEC('CREATE VIEW OR ALTER Marketers AS
         SELECT *
         FROM Employees
         WHERE Department = ''Marketing''');
END;
it creates view named Marketers
